Now the next thing I'd like to do is to get ready for making the run cycle and for this character I'm
just going to do a standard 13 frame run cycle once again I'm animating at 24 frames a second but my
run cycle will take place over 13 frames and each of the frames within that run cycle will have a particular
position like frame 1 will be a contact position frame for will be the passing position.
Frame five will be the up position so I'll need to know exactly and easily which frame is which.
Now I currently have all of my key frames happening between zero or between 1 and 60.
What I need to do is move them.
I want to be able to use the 1 through 13 frames but my previous animation cycle is in the way so I
need to move them.
What I'm going to do is use the dope sheet.
I think that's usually about the easiest way to do it.
So if I zoom in up here I can see that appear on the summary row I've got all of my key frames so I
can select this.
And these here and that will go ahead and select everything down below here.
Now I didn't grab my default pose that frames zero.
I'm going to keep that there for now.
So I only need 13 frames down here maybe I'll move my idol to frame 20.
Let's try that.
So I'll just press the G key and move until I get up to frame 20 and click.
And there we go.
So now I've got this space free to do my run cycle.
But if I zoom in here you can see that between frame 0 and frame 20 I've got a lot happening in the
curves here.
I don't want that.
I don't want all that happening.
So I can take that default pose at frame zero duplicate that zoom in a bit here.
Shift the and I'll move that up to frame 19.
As we go.
So now I've got a nice clear path in here from 1 to 13 and I've got my default pose holding that until
just before I need it at frame 20.
So to test this I can always go down here to the start frame and type in 20 and looks like I probably
go to 80 one I think.
Let's try that.
Here it is.
And we hit if we go back to the beginning of this and hit play
we have a bit of a pop.
Looks like I've got my frames a little off let me type in 22 and see what happens here.
And there we go.
So I have I have it from 22 to 81 here.
All right that'll work.
So now I need to go back to 1 through 13 so I'll type in one for the start 13 for the end and let's
go over here and zoom in for that.
And there it is.
And I'll go back to frame 1 there.
Now we have our range in which our run cycle is going to take place.
All right so let's start working on the legs.
Well let's try and figure out what our positions are going to be for each frame.
Now for free and one in frame 7 I'm going to want a contact IPO's and what I mean by that is the place
where the heel of the character contacts the ground as he comes back down from the up position.
So to begin with I think I'm going to take these hands and the torso Here let me turn on the manipulators
again.
I'm going to go to the movie tool and in local transformation my manipulators are a little bit out of
alignment with the world.
I'll go back to Global For now just as I move these things around.
I'm going to move him down at frame 1 just a bit.
So that will automatically create a keyframe because I've got autokey turned on down here.
I think I'll go to my side.
Orthographic view here and maybe I'll rotate him forward just a bit like that so he's kind of leaning
into the run.
I'll take this foot here and move it forward.
And this is the foot that I think I want him to contact the ground with and I'll rotate that back just
a little bit for the heel to hit like that I think I need this one to come up like this.
And maybe like this I'll go ahead and bring this down just to bed I'll grab the hands to just to keep
him in line for now.
And this torso bring that down a bit.
Now I can get that foot contact the ground I think something like that and I'm going to try and stay
in line with this Z-axis as I as I go try not to bring him forward or back too much and maybe I'll bring
this leg back just a hair.
I don't like that.
So there's frame one that same thing is going to need to happen at frame 13.
So I'll grab this key frame right up here that will select everything below it.
Duplicate it with shift D and then move it over to frame 13.
And there we go.
So now if I play it it should just hold it throughout that whole cycle.
All right.
Now we need to have that same pose at frame 7 but flipped so the feet are reversed.
Let's come over here to frame seven and I'm going to select everything with the achy all the bones.
And now I can come down here.
Middle mouse button drag to this menu bar over here because I don't have much screen real estate to
work with.
But if I scroll over here and I select this copy copy the current PPOs I can copy those.
And now if I paste here it will flip those.
So everything is reversed so the legs are reversed so if I click this now you can see the legs have
been reversed so if I hit play we get the beginnings of a run cycle.
So now we have our two contact positions at frames 1 and 7.
Let's now work on the passing position at frame for.